Now, let’s define
a few Boolean expressions
inside of the EarSketch
code editor
to see whether they evaluate
to be true or false.
I’ve already defined
a few variables here,
that we’ll use inside
of the Boolean expressions.
startMeasure, I set to be 1.
I assigned a 9
to a variable endMeasure.
I assigned a sound
from the EarSketch library
to the variable sound.
And I assigned a 7
to a variable called “track.”
Now, let’s define
one more variable,
this’ll be my
Boolean expression.
I’m just going to call it “a.”
And I’m going to assign
a Boolean expression to that,
endMeasure greater than 10.
And then I’ll go ahead
and print the value of a
to the EarSketch console,
so that I can see
when I run it whether
it is true or false.
Before I run it let’s reason
through this, though.
endMeasure is set
to be 9 up here.
So what this is essentially
checking for is whether
9 is greater than 10.
Since 9 is not greater than 10,
when I run this I get a value
of false in the console.
On the other hand,
if I was checking if
endMeasure equals 9,
this would be checking
whether 9 equals 9.
And of course 9 does equal 9,
so when I run this,
I get a value of true.
I can check all kinds
of different variables
in different ways.
For instance,
I could check a sound not equal
to Y03_DRUMS_SAMPLE_1.
And that’s essentially checking
does Y03_DRUMS_SAMPLE_1
not equal Y03_DRUMS_SAMPLE_1?
In other words, does something
not equal itself?
Well, of course it does
equal itself, but I’m checking
for not equal, so when
I run this I get a false.
On the other hand,
if I had been checking
for equal, does something
equal itself?
Well, yes of course it does,
so when I run that I would get
true.
I can also check things
about my track variable.
We can see is track
greater than one.
Well, the value of track is 7,
so I’m checking here
is 7 greater than 1?
Of course, 7 is greater than 1,
so this would be true.
But I could build up more
complicated expressions, too.
I can see is track greater
than 1 and track less than 5.
So that’s checking is 7 greater
than 1 and is 7 less than 5.
Well, the first part of this,
7 greater than 1, is true.
The second part of this,
7 is less than 5,
that’s false.
And true and false
always equals false.
Both parts have to be true
in an “and” statement
in order for it to be true.
Only one part is true here.
So when I run this
I get a false.
On the other hand, if I change
that “and” to an “or,”
is track greater than 1
or track less than 5.
Well, as I follow this through,
now I’m checking true or false.
And in an “or” statement,
only one of the sides
has to be true
for the whole thing to be true.
So now, when I run this,
I get a value of true.